[THEME MUSIC]
>>JEAN SLATTER: What
we're looking for
and the cure for
impostor syndrome
is knowing what is mine to do.
The thing of it is about waiting
until you, quote-unquote, "feel
worthy," honestly,
that might not happen.
[LAUGHTER]
And it's not the point.
I shut the book, and for three
months I went into depression.
I didn't know it at the time,
but it was a booming voice that
said, who do you think you are?
If you're acting from
your soul, that's
what you're here to
do, and so do it.
Nobody's energy belongs
in your energy field.
Your energy field
needs to be sovereign.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: In the
world of social media,
it's easy to feel
like a fake because we
tend to show our own sizzle
reels, our aspirational
or ideal versions of ourselves.
But what's underneath this?
Did you know that the
biggest fear of the world's
most wealthy and
powerful people is
that they will be
discovered for the imposter
or fraud they really are?
Jean Slatter is here today to
talk about imposter syndrome
and finding our self-worth.
Jean, it's good
to have you back.
>>SLATTER: Thanks, Regina.
I'm glad to be here.
>>REGINA: The Master
Dowser, your course,
is still going well?
Everything is going--
>>SLATTER: Everything's
going great.
>>REGINA: --well with that?
>>SLATTER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Well anyway,
I love what you do,
which is why I keep having
you back because this
applies to so many things.
And we keep talking about
people finding their connection
with their higher truth,
their higher self,
and that's not so easy
with all the noise.
And that's what dowsing at
a really high-level offers.
So thank you for your
diligence, your hard work, all
your protocols.
So let's start talking,
before I head off,
about self-worth
because you deal
with a lot of different
kinds of clients,
and self-worth is the big thing.
It's the things humanity
seems to suffer from most.
>>SLATTER: It really does.
And I think a lot has
to do with the fact
of social media
and all the places
that we have to
compare ourselves to.
But ultimately, what
we're looking for
and the cure for
imposter syndrome
is knowing what is mine to do.
And what that means is
it's a spiritual quest.
And when you know that, then
you express that into the world.
So in a nutshell, knowing
what is mine to do
is all about shining your light.
Sounds trite, but
that is what your job
is, to shine your light.
And so--
>>REGINA: And it
has to be something
that brings fulfillment
and joy or your life
is not going to shine.
It's just going to
be another duty.
So let's get back to duty.
>>SLATTER: OK.
>>REGINA: So in
the Western world,
we're set up,
especially if we were
raised with any of the
Judeo-Christian religions,
to be sinners.
We're sinners in
the eyes of God.
Original sin, not
original blessing.
>>SLATTER: Born in sin.
And the fault of most
religions and New Age thought
is that, wherever you are--
if you're here on
Earth, it's because you
have to work something
out, you have
to prove yourself to get to
a better place, to Heaven,
nirvana, even enlightenment.
But if you're here, it means
that you've got to work--
>>REGINA: You've already
done something wrong
or you wouldn't have been born.
>>SLATTER: Exactly.
And I think that's a
very false premise.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
We're here as a divine
expression of God,
and we're here to be creators,
creators of experience.
And so it's an ongoing discovery
of that and shining that light.
>>REGINA: It is.
And one of the things
you and I talked
about previously or
off-camera is the fact
that people are honored
in such a very narrow band
of expression, such
as in academia.
You're only honored for one
style, really, of learning.
And you excel-- you can go up
through the ranks by numbers
and rankings if you learn
that particular way, which
is the dominant way.
Let's talk about
that for a moment
because that wasn't the
dominant way even 100 years ago.
>>SLATTER: Right, right.
And that is what
I'm talking about.
You can develop a
skill or you can
develop a certain
level of knowledge,
but will that fulfill your soul?
Will that be something that you
know that you are expressing
your divine self through?
And if it isn't, ultimately it's
a sense of "I'm not fulfilled."
>>REGINA: Well yeah,
you're not fulfilled.
You're not doing your thing,
what you were born and designed
to do.
But also the feelings we
talked at the very beginning
about, our own self-worth.
If you're falling on a scale
that's publicly acknowledged
as being smart versus
dumb, your self-esteem
has really taken a hit through
the process of education
just as one thing.
>>SLATTER: Right.
Yeah.
And so it takes, again, a
focus on your spiritual nature
to overcome that and
to understand and have
close conversation
with your guidance
to know what it is you're here
to do and to bring that forth.
>>REGINA: So in addition to
bowing to those in our class
or the A, A-plus
students, have 4.0,
we also bow to power
and fame, which
to me is the most false of all.
The way people achieve power
and fame is often quite false.
Talk about imposter syndrome.
So let's talk about that
part of our own character.
What are we looking for in
these people on glossy covers
and various apps that pop up?
>>SLATTER: And
every one of those
is looking at something
else outside of themselves
and saying, I want
to aspire to be that,
or they're letting society
tell them what they should be.
And when they achieve it.
There is that lack
of fulfillment.
And how can you be
authentic when you're not
living from your divine self?
You can't be authentic.
And so, again, you
end up in a place
where you may have all
these achievements,
but the fulfillment isn't there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So you as you were saying
earlier in the conversation,
being a tuning fork
for our soul to be
able to get that information
through so we can feel it,
so we can vibe in it.
The mind is an
interesting thing.
So we can feel it emotionally.
So we can feel it where
it lands in our body.
All this is reflecting
truth to us, right?
>>SLATTER: Right, it is.
And this journey that we're
on, having a close conversation
with your guidance
about this journey
will lead to some
unexpected discoveries.
You're always in a place
of evolving and growing.
And it isn't like you wake
up one morning and you say,
I got it.
I know exactly who I am
and what I'm here to do,
and there's no more
that I have to discover.
Instead, this discovery takes
a lifetime and some of it
shows up that is really
surprising to you.
>>REGINA: Well, it has for you.
>>SLATTER: It has.
>>REGINA: We're going to
talk about it a little bit.
>>SLATTER: Yeah, you'd
never see it coming.
But then when-- your job
is to say yes to that.
When your guidance is gently
pushing you in that direction,
say yes.
>>REGINA: Yes, and we have
to be willing to be a fool.
We have to be willing
to make mistakes.
And the famous saying--
the only mistake
is if we don't learn
something from it.
That's the only time we
really make a mistake.
We have to be willing to
put ourselves on the line.
And a lot of people
are so clamped down
into these fear factors of what
they think they can and can't
do, what their parameters are,
what the rules of the game are.
We have to start shifting
the rules of the game.
There are no rules, really.
>>SLATTER: No, there
aren't any rules.
And the more that you are
in connection with your soul
and you are having
that conversation,
you'll be able to
clearly identify then
what is yours to
do and what is not.
And it's so easy then to say
no to what is not yours to do.
And that is a beautiful
thing because society
may be pushing you in
a certain direction,
and you can very confidently
say, no, that's not for me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I might have talent there.
It might look like it's a match.
But I'm not feeling it.
And so if you're
not feeling it, no,
don't place your energy there.
And of course, we
get into the topic
of "but I have to survive,"
so we'll get to that later.
But one thing that you
say, and I agree 100%,
is that you don't need to
already know how to do it.
You don't need to wait until
you've mastered something
to feel worthy of doing it.
>>SLATTER: No, absolutely not.
It's a journey and
it's self-discovery.
And so just get out
there and try it.
And the thing of
it is about waiting
until you, quote-unquote,
"feel worthy,"
honestly, that might not happen.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Yeah, you
might never feel worthy.
>>SLATTER: That day may not
come, and it's not the point.
And I have a great story
that illustrates that.
In Northern
California, there was
a gentleman that brought
the Bowen technique, which
is a type of--
>>REGINA: Of body work.
>>SLATTER: Yeah,
it's a type of--
>>REGINA: It's like a release.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
Needle-less acupuncture is
how I've heard it described.
And this gentleman brought
Bown to the entire Northern
California area.
And he had clients that would
line up outside of his house
around the block to have a
session with him, literally.
He had such a gift and a talent.
He could look at
and say, OK, I can
see where you're out
of balance, and we
can do something about that.
But listen, he was the
most unlikely healer
you would ever imagine.
>>REGINA: What was he like?
I don't know his back story.
I've had Bowen sessions.
They're good, but
what's his backstory?
>>SLATTER: Oh, my gosh.
First of all, he would
greet you at the door
usually in shorts and bare feet.
And his feet were just club
feet with huge calluses.
He had an enormous belly.
And he could never quite get
the shirt to cover the belly,
so you'd have a herniated
belly button looking at you.
[LAUGHTER]
And he drank coffee from the
time he got up in the morning
till the time he went
to bed, and smoked,
and he swore like a mechanic.
[LAUGHTER]
A total unlikely healer.
So if he had said
to himself, I have
to wait until I'm
the epitome of health
before I can help others, the
world would have missed out.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SLATTER: And not only did
he help all of his clients,
but he went on to
create a school
and taught hundreds
of other practitioners
who went on to help
thousands of patients.
The world would have
missed out if he
was waiting to feel worthy.
>>REGINA: To
epitomize good health.
[LAUGHTER]
I love that story.
So let's talk
about yourself when
you were getting ready to
do what you're doing now.
And there's something about
an octopus story in this?
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: I love octopi.
>>SLATTER: So what happened for
me when I was writing "Hiring
the Heavens"-- we're going back
quite a number of years here--
first of all, I was
given the message
that I needed to write
"Hiring the Heavens."
>>REGINA: What year
did you write that?
>>SLATTER: And that was in 2003.
>>REGINA: I must
have met you not too
long-- a few years after that.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
And when you're given a
message by your guidance,
you know it's yours to do.
So I was very
comfortable with that,
and I began writing the book.
And there was a point in the
development where I thought,
I'm going to print this
out now and read it
as if I'm a first-time reader
and see what my thoughts are.
And as I did that, turning page
after page, I got so excited.
I thought, this is so good,
I love this, oh my gosh,
and getting more and more
inspired with my own writing.
I got about 3/4 of
the way through,
and something came over me.
It was an enormous black
cloud that descended.
I shut the book, put it down
in the lower file cabinet,
and for three months I
went into depression.
I never looked at it.
And I didn't know,
I didn't even have
words to express what
I was going through
or why I had done such a thing.
What was wrong with me?
Why did I put that book away?
Why am I not working on it?
And I kept asking my guidance.
I said, you wanted
me to write this.
What's wrong with me?
How come I just
want to stay in bed
with the covers over my head?
So three months later, my
guidance gave me a dream.
It was so profound,
Regina, and I
knew it was the answer to why
I wasn't writing the book.
And here's what it was.
In my dream, I was
standing in front
of a mirror without
any clothes on,
and I was checking myself out.
And I was saying to myself,
well, I see some flaws,
but overall pretty good.
And then I looked down and there
was this fold around my torso.
And in the dream, it was
as if everyone has a fold,
so that wasn't unusual.
But I pulled the fold
down, and underneath
it looked like the
suckers on an octopus leg.
>>REGINA: Whoa.
>>SLATTER: And I went, oh!
Oh!
Oh, how did that get there!
Oh, my gosh.
I was beside myself.
I was so horrified
because it looked hideous.
I woke myself up
in a cold sweat,
just mortified that
that existed on my body.
I also knew that was
the answer to why
I wasn't finishing my book.
So day after day, I asked my
guidance, explain it to me.
I know this is why I'm
not writing my book,
but I don't get it.
What's the meaning?
Days went by.
On the seventh day,
I have another dream.
And in this dream, I'm
sitting across from myself,
pretty much like we are now.
And I had my arms crossed,
and I'm looking at myself
rather impatiently.
And I say, in a sneer, so
you still haven't gotten it?
All right, I'll tell you.
And I proceeded to tell myself
what the meaning of the dream
was.
And what it was is that
I was checking myself out
in front of a mirror without
any clothes on because when
you put a book out there,
you make yourself vulnerable.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SLATTER: You tell the world--
>>REGINA: Kind of naked.
>>SLATTER: Yeah, who you
are, what your thoughts are.
You expose yourself.
But then the fear
was that if I did
that, they might see something
so horrible, so disgusting,
it would turn their stomach and
they'd walk away in disgust.
That fear is something
that we all have.
It goes like, if
you really knew me--
[LAUGHS] if you really knew me--
>>REGINA: And you term
it almost like, well,
who do you think you are?
Right?
>>SLATTER: That was the dark
cloud that descended upon me.
I didn't know it at the time,
but it was a booming voice that
said, who do you think you are?
What makes you think
you have anything to say
that anybody wants to hear?
What makes you
think you're going
to write a book that
anyone wants to read?
Who do you think you are?
You just need to go to bed,
pull the covers over your head,
and don't come up.
>>REGINA: Forget about it.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
That was the voice.
>>REGINA: Wow.
That's intense.
>>SLATTER: It was.
>>REGINA: Thank you for
sharing that because--
we're going to get to
this in a little bit,
but I alluded to it in
the open of the show
when I was introducing you.
In that Fortune 500 study
that was done many years ago--
and a friend told me
about it because I
was getting ready to launch
a new kind of product
on TV at the time.
And I really wanted to go
for it and do this project,
but I had my
doubts, like, who do
I think I am to do this
project, just like you said.
And I was speaking to a wiser
older male friend of mind.
And he said, do you
know about this study?
And that's when he told me that
the greatest fear of these CEOs
and presidents of
Fortune 500 companies
was that they were going to
be detected for being frauds.
The biggest fear.
Number one fear.
So this runs really,
really deep in us.
And so having this
conversation, you
sharing such a vulnerable
story, is so important
because we all have
something beautiful to offer.
We all have some kind of
delight that nobody else
knows like we do to offer the
world, whatever that may be.
And to be able to tap
into that is the key,
and then have the courage
to offer it, no matter
how crazy it is.
So let's go to the
next part of it, which
is the feelings of
unworthiness that most
everybody experiences.
How do we then turn those around
into feelings of empowerment?
Like what happened?
After you realized the message,
what happened with you?
>>SLATTER: Then I
realized that, OK,
if I have this octopus leg, if
that exists, I need to find it.
I need to be aware of it.
And so you actually
go looking for it.
And that is where
you start exploring
your feelings of unworthiness
and seeing if they really
exist.
Now, here's the funny
thing about all this.
Ultimately, where we want to get
to is the idea that worthiness,
unworthiness, it's
irrelevant, it means nothing,
and that they're just tools
through which the soul uses
to grow and evolve.
When I was working with
some of my students,
we had weekly sessions,
and for weeks we
were dealing with the
subject of unworthiness.
And we thought we had exhausted
it, knew everything about it.
Yet the following
week, guidance wants
to talk about
unworthiness again.
And we're thinking,
OK, what now?
What more do we need to know?
And this time, guidance
said, don't underestimate
the gift of feeling unworthy.
And I thought, really?
Well, how could that be?
And what they explained
is that, again, it
is a tool through which the
soul uses to grow and evolve.
And immediately, I thought
about my first two children.
With my first child,
I had health issues
and he had health issues.
I certainly felt
unworthy as a mom.
And because of that, I
went on to study nutrition,
get my degree in naturopathy.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>SLATTER: I became a naturopath
because of the struggles
that I went through
with my first child.
My second child, I had
definitely some karmic issues
there, and that
brought me to explore
all sorts of spiritual
studies and to understand
the nature of our past lives
and what we're doing here.
And then I became, in
large part due to that,
I became a spiritual
teacher because of it.
So I grew and evolved
through tremendous feelings
of unworthiness, tremendous
days and days of tears.
>>REGINA: Well, you also had
a pretty rigid and not very
productive religious
background, which held you back
on a lot of levels.
You had to overcome all of that.
>>SLATTER: I had to
overcome all of that.
And that's how I grew.
And so then I realized
that, yeah, I'm
the person I am today
because of those struggles.
Now, my next two children,
wonderful children, they
were gifts, but I didn't
have struggles with them.
My first two made me who I am.
>>REGINA: But it's
interesting, though.
You have a personality unlike--
I only one other person
like you that has
such an incredible
diligence to exploring
and digging and learning from
everything that comes up.
You don't waste an
opportunity for learning ever.
Where the rest of us might
say, oh yeah, and, oh yeah,
I get that, but they're not
going to take as deep a dive
as you do.
But the proof is in
the pudding for you.
You have expanded
yourself in so many ways
because you take the time and
care enough to dive deeply
into whatever these wounds are.
I just want to say
I so respect that.
So let's talk a little bit
more about imposter syndrome
because this really, we
talked about a moment ago,
particularly affects people that
appear to be high achievers.
>>SLATTER: Right.
And it's this idea
that, somehow, we're
fake inside, which is very
similar to that octopus leg.
But the more that you are
connected with your spiritual
journey and understand what
your soul is here to do--
and I'm not--
the types of things
that we're describing
when we say our gifts
of spirit are things
like, who am I as a person?
Who am I as a soul?
What are my gifts?
Am I here as a teacher?
Am I here as a minister?
Am I here as a rebel?
What is it about me?
Am I here as a researcher?
What are those gifts that I
have that I'm here to express?
And how do I express that light?
So the more we're in
touch with and expressing
that light, the less we will
feel that imposter syndrome.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SLATTER: In fact,
I would venture
to say that it's impossible
to feel it if you
are coming from your soul.
>>REGINA: I would
say that's accurate
because there's such a deep
sense of knowing at that point.
One of the misperceptions
people have about others
who appear to be
successful-- because success
is a broad word.
Just because you make the cover
of a magazine doesn't mean
you're a success in life.
But that being said, one of the
things that people often say
is, well, you can do that
because you don't have fear.
That is not true.
So let's talk about
that, how people really--
you do it in spite of the fear.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] And you push yourself.
>>REGINA: You push yourself
in spite of the fear.
>>SLATTER: And step up to
the plate because that is--
if you're acting from your soul,
that's what you're here to do.
And so do it.
Be about that.
It's being able to say
to that voice that says,
who do you think you are--
it's that awareness of,
yes, I do know who I am,
so now I can tell that voice,
you go lay back in bed [LAUGHS]
because I have a job to do and
I need to be about my work here.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And people tend to become--
I talked-- I said this
earlier in the program,
that we tend to
become paralyzed.
We'll be confronted with a
new possibility or a new idea,
but this whole notion
of "is that for me?"--
at first blush, we're going to
go into automatic programming
reaction rather than response.
And having to strip away
those filters of what
our family, our culture, and
society has said we're allowed
to do, that's a big process.
How do you guide your clients?
So it's stripping away
these old beliefs,
these old programs that
stop them from joyously
jumping into the new.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
And when I'm working
with my clients,
it's always with
their higher guidance
because no one knows them like
their own higher guidance.
And for me, it would
just be a guess.
So you need to
have a way to have
that conversation with
your higher guidance,
however you've developed
that, whether it's
through meditation, through
dowsing, through oracles,
through some intuitive
means where you're
having that conversation
with your higher guidance
and getting to your true
authentic self and discovering.
It is a journey of discovery.
>>REGINA: And that is a process.
And one thing that
you have done is
you've developed really very
thorough protocols in terms
of dowsing because so
many-- everyone I know
has a little pendulum
or dowsing rods.
He loves me, he loves me not.
Yes.
Oh, see?
I knew it.
[LAUGHTER]
So you're just feeding
yourself what you want to hear.
So what does it take to go into
that more mature, relaxed state
where, when a person
is dowsing, they're
not trying to program
it and they accept
what comes their way, regardless
if it's what they want to hear?
That takes some
maturity and relaxation.
>>SLATTER: And
it's a discipline.
Some people are just
born with that gift where
they can immediately sense
what their higher guidance is
saying.
But if you're not
one of those people,
and I wasn't, it is a
discipline and it's a practice.
And it happens and
evolves over time.
>>REGINA: What, you
lied to yourself
quite a bit in the beginning?
[LAUGHS]
>>SLATTER: I didn't-- yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm quite certain
that I had no clue
on even how to ask good
questions in the beginning.
>>REGINA: Yeah, but
you developed it
for the rest of us.
You did a good job.
>>SLATTER: But it's sticking
with it and continuing to ask
a question and have the door
open to whatever is coming
through--
>>REGINA: And don't be
afraid of the answer.
>>SLATTER: --without
censoring it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
And trying to
manipulate the answer.
And so just being open
to what comes through.
>>REGINA: It's not wise
to hide from truth.
And if the truth
is coming through
and you don't like what
you're hearing, just relax.
Everything-- the entirety of
our lives begin to take a right
turn when we can accept
and look at the deeper
truths of ourselves.
Because none of us want to
see ourselves as flawed.
We're all-- we are
looking oftentimes
through our own sizzle
reel lens at our lives,
the aspirational part of it.
And we need to let go and say,
it's OK, we're all flawed.
We can listen to this, and
if we get a no when we wanted
to hear a yes, that's OK.
Just keep asking more
refined questions
and you'll know where
you start working.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
And if you end up
finding an octopus leg--
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: That's OK too.
>>SLATTER: Go ahead
and explore that
and consider that that's
actually a gift to you
to now grow and evolve.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Thank you for that.
So you say there's
a process of it too,
and that has to do with
accepting, claiming,
and proclaiming.
>>SLATTER: Ah.
This is the secret formula.
>>REGINA: You and I had a
little private talk about that.
>>SLATTER: Yeah, we did.
This is the secret formula
to overcoming the imposter
syndrome.
So the first part is accept.
What that means-- accept
the gifts that you've
been given by spirit.
Now, these gifts are not
things that you earned.
They're not skills you develop.
They were given to you
because you're a god self.
And so you have to accept that,
yes, I do have that ability.
It was given to me.
And now claim it as yours to do.
This is now something that you
are to express into the world.
And the third part
is the magic part,
and that's when you
proclaim it to the world.
So an example would be
when I was beginning
to understand and explore
the nature of spirituality
and did all of my research
and conversations,
countless conversations
with my higher guidance,
I got a message--
when I threw the
I Ching [LAUGHS]
I got a message that
literally changed my life.
It was a simple
statement that said,
it is time now for you
to share with the world
the spiritual insights
you have received.
And I knew then that
I had to proclaim
that I was a spiritual teacher.
Now, here's the interesting
thing and the magic about
proclaiming.
Until that moment, until
I had proclaimed it,
there wouldn't be an authority
on the planet that could tell
me I was a spiritual teacher.
I would have said no.
I just find this fascinating
and interesting, but no.
But then the minute
that I proclaimed
that there isn't an
authority on the planet that
can tell me otherwise, I
am a spiritual teacher.
And so that art of proclaiming
changes everything.
The rest of the world now will
respond to you differently
the minute you proclaim.
And so for myself,
I am not a writer.
I'm not going to proclaim that.
[LAUGHS] I write in order to
express my spiritual teachings,
but I'm not a writer.
I know that's not mine to do.
And I'm clear about that and
I'm comfortable about that.
But I can say I am
a spiritual teacher,
and that's the magic of it.
>>REGINA: You're
right, and you are.
And that is something I have
struggled with my entire life.
And it's not-- I wouldn't
even say struggled.
It's just that I haven't
proclaimed anything.
So I meet people,
I meet strangers.
And oh, what do you
do for a living?
I'm a journalist.
And that's all I'll ever say.
Not the rest of it,
just "I'm a journalist."
And I think, gosh, is that true?
Is that what I actually am?
I've just been saying it
for so many years, that's
just what by default
comes out of my mouth.
And also, I don't want to
go into a long explanation
about anything.
But the whole notion about
having inner authority
in the spiritual
realms, and other people
will say, you're a spiritual
teacher, you need to claim it.
And I realized I have a
problem with word "teacher."
I had a problem in school--
>>SLATTER: Interesting.
>>REGINA: --with
the word "teacher,"
I don't like the word "teacher."
So that's not something I
could proclaim for myself.
But I realized
"guide," to help guide,
I feel comfortable with that.
And it was because
of our conversation
that I realized I could proclaim
that I can help guide people.
I'm a guide of sorts, even
in these conversations.
>>SLATTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And that
felt better for me
because I have so
much programming
loaded around the word "teacher"
and authority of any kind.
[LAUGHS] I was anti-authority
as a child, very much so.
So yeah, whereas "teacher" is
perfectly acceptable to you
because you don't have that
relationship to that word.
>>SLATTER: Yeah, and when you
can find that word that you're
comfortable with and you
proclaim and you say "I am,"
it's never about bragging.
It's never about boasting
and saying, boy, look at me.
It isn't about that.
It's about honoring the gift
of spirit you've been given.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SLATTER: If you have that
gift and it was given to you,
the way that you honor
it is to proclaim it.
The way you dishonor it
is to say no and hide it.
You know the saying
in the Bible,
hide your light under a bushel.
>>REGINA: Light under a bushel.
[LAUGHTER]
That is Sunday school.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
That is dishonoring the
gift that you've been given.
>>REGINA: That really is.
And if I may add, just
from my perspective,
the notion of the gift--
I see the gift as
something-- because I
believe in reincarnation--
as something
that has been developed within
the soul over a period of time
and maybe set aside
for a lifetime
and then re-emerges
in another lifetime.
But it's something
that you have honed
and that you have
earned over lifetimes.
>>SLATTER: Your soul.
>>REGINA: Your soul.
>>SLATTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>REGINA: The soul
has experienced this
and it's bringing it
forward to be utilized.
It's not like it was
just dropped on you.
>>SLATTER: No, no.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so I'm just making a
clarification of the gift
you bring forward
from within yourself.
>>SLATTER: Yes, and
that's your divine self.
>>REGINA: That's your
divine self, absolutely.
There's one thing--
the fear of rejection.
And you and I had a
private conversation.
I thought, we've got
to talk about this.
The fear of rejection in
society, which of course,
all of these things have to do
with self-worth, uneasiness,
imposter syndrome.
All of us experience this.
No one wants to be rejected from
their tribe or their family.
And you were talking about
the world stood still
in the moment.
You saw this scene
in a movie, and it
was from the movie "The Girl
with the Dragon Tattoo."
Let's talk about that.
>>SLATTER: Oh, a chilling line.
>>REGINA: Because it's so--
it's chilling and it's so true.
>>SLATTER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So set us
all up in the movie.
And a lot of people
have seen it,
but go ahead for
those who haven't.
>>SLATTER: So Daniel
Craig, the main actor,
is searching the house of a guy
who he thinks is a murderer.
But he hears the car
come into the driveway,
so he escapes out the back deck.
And he's headed down the hill
when the owner from the deck
calls down to him and said,
hey, what are you doing?
He says, oh, acting
all innocent,
I was just coming by to
see if you were there,
and when you weren't
I thought I'd leave.
And he said, well, why
don't you come on back?
Let's have a drink.
We'll talk.
And so Daniel Craig does,
has the drink, gets poisoned.
The next moment,
he wakes up, he's
in the basement,
which appears to be--
>>REGINA: Tied up.
>>SLATTER: Tied
up, chained, bound.
He's in-- it's a
torture chamber,
and he knows he's
going to be killed.
And the murderer
says to him, tell me,
why didn't you listen
to your instincts?
You knew I was the murderer,
yet all I had to do
was invite you up for a drink.
Why is the fear of offending
greater than the fear of harm?
>>REGINA: It just almost makes
me cry because, in a small way,
I think each of us does this.
We don't want to
offend others, so we'll
put the fear of rejection
ahead of what we instinctively
know is for our best.
So yeah, talk about
that a little bit,
breaking that
syndrome a little bit.
>>SLATTER: Right.
And that comes down
to really being
able to listen to
your gut instincts.
If you come across
someone or some situation
where you get a bad
feeling, listen to that.
And be OK with what would
appear to be rude behavior
or offensive behavior.
You can be OK with
that if you feel
that this other
person may actually
be there to do you harm.
And the thing about others that
are doing harm, it's a rather--
they do it in disguise.
They do it in such a
way that's friendly.
"Come on in for a drink."
[LAUGHS] And so it would
appear to be all innocent.
>>REGINA: To disarm you.
>>SLATTER: Yeah, to disarm you.
You have to listen to that.
>>REGINA: A chilling
example of, again, something
that we do in subtle ways.
So that gets us into
personality disorders.
One that's really
skyrocketing right now
seems to be
diagnosable narcissism,
for a variety of reasons.
And narcissists often
pair with empaths.
>>SLATTER: They do.
>>REGINA: And you deal with
this among your clientele.
If you're a
narcissist, you won't
recognize that we're
talking about it because you
won't see yourself as one.
But let's talk about some
of those personality traits.
And the people watching this
are generally more the empaths
that end up hooking
up with narcissists,
so let's talk about
it for a moment.
>>SLATTER: So yes, there
seems to be an epidemic
of narcissists--
>>REGINA: Of narcissism.
>>SLATTER: --but there
is also a balance
because there's an epidemic
of empaths to balance it out.
You need to be aware,
you're a prime target.
You're a prime target--
>>REGINA: If you're an
empath, you're a target.
>>SLATTER: If you're
an empath, you're
a prime target for a narcissist.
They need you.
They feed off of you.
That's who they're looking for.
So more than ever, an
empath has to be connected
to their spiritual self,
to their gut instincts,
and be able to draw
those boundaries.
The problem with
a lot of empaths
is that, because they
have such compassion,
they will often draw in
other people's energies
in order to heal them.
>>REGINA: Yeah, OK.
>>SLATTER: But the thing of
it is, is nobody's energy
belongs in your energy field.
Your energy field
needs to be sovereign.
Not even your parents,
not your kids,
nobody else needs to be
in your energy field.
You need to be the
sole protector of it.
You can work with some--
It doesn't mean that
you can't be empathic.
It doesn't mean that you
can't be compassionate.
It just means you need to do it
from the boundary of your own--
holding onto your own space.
What happens is that,
oftentimes, empaths will not
only draw in people
and attract people
who will be energy vampires
and feed off of them, but also
even in the entity world--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SLATTER: They'll bring in--
>>REGINA: Other dimensions.
>>SLATTER: Other dimensions.
There is a technique
[LAUGHS] for empaths that
is really quite fascinating.
I got this out of a book called
"Awaken to the Healer Within."
And you can tell
it from your hands.
Now, I know that your
little finger was broken,
so you probably aren't
going to be able to--
>>REGINA: No, I've had
three of them-- two cut off
and the pad cut off of the
other one on the same hand.
>>SLATTER: So you're not
going to be able to do this.
But what you do is
you line up the heart
line, which is this line
underneath the little finger.
You line that up, and then
you put your little fingers
together and you
see if they're even.
Now again, yours
aren't going to be.
We know that.
>>REGINA: Mine's way shorter.
>>SLATTER: I know.
>>REGINA: But yours-- normally,
they should be somewhat even.
>>SLATTER: They should
be straight across.
And if they aren't,
it's an indication
that you've got
energies in your field
that, whether you've
invited them or not,
they just don't belong there.
>>REGINA: Does it
matter which hand?
>>SLATTER: No.
>>REGINA: So that means you--
so is this a discovery someone
made, or what's the deal?
>>SLATTER: Again, I
got it from this book.
I don't know who the author is.
The name of the book is
"Awaken to the Healer Within."
And it's fascinating,
Regina, because--
>>REGINA: Wow, everybody right
now is going like this at home.
>>SLATTER: Yes.
I've been using it for
years with clients.
>>REGINA: Is it true?
>>SLATTER: Oh.
There's a prayer to say.
And basically, the
prayer is saying
that whatever is
in my auric field
with or without my
permission, I ask you now
to go to the core of
your being, so be it,
and with love and just lovingly
saying, you don't belong here.
Then they recheck their
fingers and they're even.
>>REGINA: Oh my gosh.
>>SLATTER: I had one client
fall out of her chair
because she couldn't believe it.
Her fingers were so off,
and then said a prayer,
and then they were even.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Oh my god.
>>SLATTER: And it makes
a huge difference.
And I will tell
you also that this
happened for my second son.
And when I read this
and-- because it
can influence your
personality, you can imagine.
To the extreme, if
someone's possessed,
they're not even going
to be themselves.
And so my son, I had him
check his little fingers,
and they were off.
And he said the prayer.
His personality
changed after that.
>>REGINA: Say the prayer
again that people can say.
>>SLATTER: It is whatever
is in my auric field
with or without my
permission, I ask you now
to go to the core of your being.
Go with light.
Go with love.
So be it.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>SLATTER: And it's
just basically saying,
you don't belong here.
>>REGINA: Well, so many
people watching this right
now are empaths.
And so you just gave a wonderful
gift to a lot of people.
So on that note, we need to take
a quick look because we didn't
even get to your artwork.
I just want to do
this to finish it off.
You took a big leap
of faith recently
and because your guidance told
you-- diversify, diversify.
Because you were finding
yourself under your covers
and your life had collapsed
in on itself, and they said,
diversify, do what you love.
And you exploded
into a creative mode.
>>SLATTER: I'll
tell you, Regina,
when the angels tell you to do
something, you have to do it.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: You do.
You do.
>>SLATTER: You do.
>>REGINA: And you did it.
You have done it.
>>SLATTER: What
my angels told me
was that I had devoted so many
years to my spiritual studies
and my programs, and they
said, now you're done.
And not that you're
not going to still--
>>REGINA: Your course
is always available
and you still see people.
>>SLATTER: I'm still
doing it, but no more
do you have to develop it.
Now it's time for you
to expand and to do
something that's just for fun.
And one of the things that I did
for fun is take up art again.
I had done it when--
>>REGINA: You were
a painter before.
>>SLATTER: Before
I had kids, Yeah.
And so I started to
pick up art again.
And I'll tell you, Regina,
in the beginning, I felt--
I would never--
>>REGINA: Like an imposter?
[LAUGHS]
>>SLATTER: Yes.
I would never have proclaimed
myself as an artist.
But as I got into it,
I discovered that, wow,
I actually do have
a gift for this,
for expressing
myself through art.
So that's the accept part.
The next was claim.
Well, this is mine to do, so
I just started doing painting.
I actually became obsessed.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: I know you did.
>>SLATTER: I'd do it every day.
And then the next step was
to proclaim, I am an artist.
So I did that.
>>REGINA: Well, we can see
from these images you are.
>>SLATTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Absolutely beautiful.
>>SLATTER: I said,
I am an artist.
So I put my work out
there to the world.
And again, the magic
of proclaiming.
Prior to that, prior
to proclaiming,
it wouldn't have mattered
how many people told me
I was an artist, I
wouldn't have believed it,
I wouldn't have acted on it.
But the minute that
I proclaimed it,
then there's no authority out
there that can say otherwise.
>>REGINA: And you opened
your little shop door.
[LAUGHTER]
>>SLATTER: So it's a lot of fun.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
It's beautiful work.
Thank you so much.
Again, so many little gems for
people to take home with them.
So I appreciate it.
So until next time, thank you
so much for taking the time
to be here.
And are people best to find you
at jeanslatter.com or Creative
Mystic?
>>SLATTER: Either way
goes to the same place.
>>REGINA: All righty.
So thank you so much, Jean.
To see some of Jean's
phenomenal work
and learn about her
courses in developing
personal power
through dowsing, you
can go to creativemystic.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]